I don't want to move but don't qualify for the income amount. 
"It's expensive to live here, but we like the services"
I feel i am paying taxes too much on unused land. In order to pay takes i have to give up buying good food to kids and could not enroll other social activities. I am having very little money to spend in my family for any recreation. Some months i borrow money from bank to pay town taxes.
"Town taxes are too high and spending is questionable, e.g., first fixing the old high school a few years back for $60M, and now deciding to build a new one for $200M."
Stress is more directly experienced (and significant) as it relates to dual income family schedule which is required to meet expenses.
"When we bought the house we would have answered differently as the price was beyond our ability. We stretched and made it work and are now in a different financial position. For a young family with small children, this is a hard place to find a house with a yard."
"High Real Estate Tax, High water bill"
Our yearly property taxes are only slightly less than our yearly mortgage payment.
I always worry about increases in taxes.  I am in that lower level because I've refinanced many times but my taxes have increased over 300% since I've moved here.
There have been 9 out of 10 overrides in the past 10 years.  Taxes are too high even with the evaluation on all the McMasions.  Negotiations on union contracts is a big problem.  Where are the cost controls?
"Unknown, but expected yearly tax increases make budgeting a challenge.  Lexington seems to have an affinity to spend as significant amout on new fire stations, schools, temporary high school track, etc. and expects the residents to accept we should pay for everything.  In my opinion the town is fiscally irresponsible.  "
taxes are high for people have no school-age kids and have no need for any recreational services
"Taxes have increased a lot over the years, both in rate and valuation.  That is an unexpectedly significant cost of living here.  I fear that we will eventually be unable to justify the tax burden, and potentially move elsewhere. "
Property tax will shortly drive my family out of Lexington to a town with lower taxes
Lexington is raping the residents with their sky high taxes  beyond a scam and ripoff but you dont give a crap because the town figures an asian family will move in and pay these outrageous taxes!
Retirement worries about will our resources last as long as we do.
I am a Town Employee and salaries have not kept up with the cost of living.
Real estate taxes have gone up significantly (over 20 percent from prior year).  This is unfair especially if you don’t have a big home.
"Retired, on fixed income. Property taxes are very high. Mortgage is paid off. "
"It is costly living in lexington, mainly due to high taxes."
people that are overly stressed about housing costs are probably living beyond their means!
We are seniors on limited income in danger of losing our home in Lexington
Na
54 year resident. Electric heat and additional cost of living makes it difficult
Taxes way too high
"We are unable to accumulate any monthly savings to grow our rainy day fund because all the money goes to the mortgage and child care - used to be daycare, now it's the after-school program.  "
Housing bubble!
"I think the town provides excellent service, financial aids and programs to seniors.  I don’t mean they don’t need these services.  But I heard that a lot of seniors who have children are living in the town in a big house, but don’t nknow why they can live in senior living. "
Lexhab increased my rent over $300
I live in a humble home. It is in a “not desirable “ location according to realtors. It needs work. It will not sell for much. I don’t know where I can afford to move and my job is insecure. At age 6[x] this is terrifying.
We bought many years ago and have paid off our house. We probably could not afford to buy into town with current housing prices. 
Taxes in Lexington are way too high. I worry that when I retire I will have to move out of Lexington. 
"Our property tax has nearly doubled in the past 5 years and will likely double again once the new levies, plus the upcoming levy for the new high school, are added. We are seriously considering moving to another town where the property taxes are more fair and reasonable."
" in 20 years  we have seen an increase in taxes about 75% of the original ($9000)
We started with a $12,000 ar $21,000 "
"Property tax too high and increase constantly, pushed up all other costs including home insurance, not good."
We are both retired 
Taxes are high
We fortunately can afford our mortgage and property tax and still have enough to do all the other things we want to do in our busy lives.
Property taxes are way too high!
we are thankfully very comfortable financially
"Taxes are high. Mortgage is high because of the high cost of the houses. Additional services like babysitting or house cleaning are costly too, therefore not sustainable... We manage to do everything, but at the cost of working during nighttime and weekends as well"
Property taxes are escalating faster than wages
The appraisal is inconsistent.
Tax starts to be a burden 
V v expensive real estate taxes as Widow choosing to stay in familiar environment!
"Taxes go up, schools are great, it's getting more expensive to live here all the time.  Property taxes and insurance costs go up as well.   "
"We are in subsidized housing but are just over the income threshold to qualify now. We will need to move soon, and aren't sure whether we can find another house we can afford to rent in Lexington as our rent will likely go up around $1000 a month. I have no idea where that money is going to come from. Our kids are in school here and we hate to leave. I worry literally every day about rent and finding a new place to live."
Lexington is a tough place to hold on to a house past retirement. And young people who work here can't afford to live here.
We have a large mortgage payment in addition to our monthly bills/expenses.
New situation (divorce) change my financial situation.
Property taxes keep going up~!
"My rent has gone up 100.00 a month.  I plan to live here 10 or so years.  That is an increase of 12,000.00.  No way my income from SS and pension will increase the same amount i those 10 years..  This is an impossible dilemma to solve. There needs to be a cap on rental inreases, or the offer of a binding contract for a given rate for a chosen number of years,  i.e. a contract for say, $2100.00 for 5 years so that I could make a commitment to the rental company and have a way to project my budget. So ""some"" distress now, but greater projected for the future."
Thinking about retirement. The cost of property taxes will be prohibitive. 
The ever increasing tax bite is forcing us out of town
The increase of property tax has been too much.
"Would like to receive your survey 
See who is using it
Any one from next town
Any fees charged for any services"
"Lexington offers a very wide range of ""nice to have"" services to residents - community center, recreational facilities, etc.  I support these within reason, but there should be a system of user charges that recover a significant part of the cost of these services - they should not be buried in the tax base, since this produces an ""other people's money"" mentality.  The community center is a good example of this.  I pay for my BSC membership - a similar fee structure for the community center should be on the table (with appropriate financial aid).  Making this part of  the proposition would be a good test of whether the facility or service is needed.  Philanthropy / endowment is another thing the Town could consider - this brought us Cary Hall and the Hayden Rec."
"between monthly housing costs and utility costs, being physically challenged, medical bills, and being over 65, it is sometimes hard to meet all monthly costs."
"Although I'm entirely eligible for Lexington property tax deferral program, my mortgage holder refuses to allow my participation owing to legal technicalities in the structure of the program that the bank says inconveniences them."
Our rents keep going up by twice the inflation rate or even more at times and the increases are completely unpredictable. 
This is an expensive community for a retiree. 
"We are fortunate to have been able to pay off our mortgage several years back so we are just paying insurance and taxes which, while relatively high, are manageable for our two-income family."
The taxes we pay to the town are very high!!
Half of my military retirement pay goes to property taxes.  I'm retired.
"The only way to afford living in Lexington is with a dual income couple with very good jobs or a single income family with  'one percenter' employment.  The dual income couple with children has additional stress providing the care and support the children need to do what they want to do - UNTIL they can drive.

How about Lexpress at EVERY school at the end of activities or town-wide late bus?"
the real estate taxes keep going up and we are not sure we will be able to continue to live in this town -- the town is spending vast sums of money to replace schools and other public buildings -- money that the town does not have and wealthier people in town keep voting for overrides
Costs of living in Lexington are rising faster than income; it's not sustainable.
"Own my home outright, so just pay (high) property taxes"
High mortgage payments 
Both still working
Been here since 1973.  The town has forced out lower income neighbors by allowing the building of monstrosities.  The Battle of Lexington on the Green was for the common man.  It's ironic that the common man can't afford to live here...only the privileged affluent elite.
property taxes seem very high
Must move out of town due to high real estate taxes (on limited income).
"When we bought the house we would have answered differently as the price was beyond our ability. We stretched and made it work and are now in a different financial position. For a young family with small children, this is a hard place to find a house with a yard."
None
taxes and household maintenance and upkeep
"Our rent is high, but purchasing even an apartment (not a house) is not affordable."
Daycare plus a mortgage is an almost impossible feat.
"With our currebt income and spending, our budget is borderline breakeven if not in the red, and ANY increase in housing costs (mainly property taxes, as these are generally the only cost that goes up every year) digs us further in the hole. We are very tight with our money and spend almost nothing on wants (only needs), so annual property tax increases are constantly stressful"
My property taxes consume 33% of net income
worry that they will rise above my means
We often scramble to cover our monthly expenses. 
"We live in the smallest and cheapest house in town, we’d never be able to afford the huge new-build houses "
"We bought an old house in late 1990's, in poor shape, and spent 100's of hours to renovate it.  The mortgage is low; we do not live beyond our means. "
I am retired. My wife works. Taxes must be capped and town should try to bring more efficiency to its operations.
"We'd love to have a smaller mortgage, but there was nothing smaller in the 6 months we were looking."
Cost of living to high as many do not receive cost of living increases in salary
"Taxes have been on a steep increase since we moved here 4 years ago, and I believe they will continue to rise at a steep rate due to town construction on public buildings.  It may become unaffordable in the near future if the town continues to grow/build at this rate.
"
"We have lived here for 24 years.  If we had to move here now, housing cost would be much more stressful."
"Lexington is an expensive town since it has good schools and services.  It is appropriate in my opinion that folks who live in Lexington should expect to pay a lot for housing, mortgages and taxes."
"Property taxes are very high, and rising."
My main concern about the housing is the constant elimination of small or medium sized homes and building of larger homes
"We would like to purchase a home in Lexington, but it is too expensive. "
Living in Lexington has become too expensive. I wouldn't live her if I were to do again.
"I am deeply concerned about the community and environmental impact of  pervasive destruction of more ""affordable"" residences (under $1, 000, 000) to build more multi-million residences."
"Property taxes are hard to justify for the services we use.  No children in school, living in social security and savings"
Our main bread winner passed away suddenly
"We are living in a house that is too small for us in order to afford the cost of living here.  We feel that there are very few affordable, appropriately sized houses available in town -- every (relatively) smaller house is being torn down and a huge, unaffordable one being built in its place.  As seniors raising elementary aged children, we will be forced to move out of town as soon as they complete their education here.  We will not be able to afford staying here on a fixed income.  Even if we could, the housing now available would not be appropriate for aging in place.  PLEASE PLEASE put some zoning in place!! We need it not only for housing affordability, but also to stop the already over crowded schools from getting even worse!"
I hate the way my  taxes have risen so much since I moved to Lexington in 1980.
"The property taxes of $17, 353 is very high for us."
"DPW management are incorporated, nasty, talk over me when I am trying to discuss whatever.  Refuse to come out and look and talk.  Disgusting!  Workers are wonderful and polite."
"It is a constant strain, but it was our choice"
More free programs for seniors
property taxes have >TRIPLED in 15 years. NOT sustainable! 
Live in a small condo after downsizing from a house on Young St. Attempting to control costs while staying in the Town as we age.
Property tax getting higher will be big burden for our family
"It is very expensive here but not as bad as San Jose, CA - where we came from. "
There is only anxiety when we have to send in our extremely high property tax payment!
"We would like to stay in Lexington when retired, but the taxes make that difficult."
"Being a resident for over 30 years, I am dumb founded when the homes are McMansions and the little quant Lexington is now a stressful community for young students. There is a lot of competition wothin schools and families compete with their monetary status. 

I also have elderly parents living in this town on a fixed income and the taxes we pay here are outrageous. I only stay in this town because my parents do not want to move and my youngest has 3 more years of high school.   "
Town taxes are high
Lots of services but few for working parents with young children not yet in the school system. Don’t assume that a parent is stay at home. Daycare presents a significant financial burden. 
"High tax rate, and rising"
"Our taxes on an unrenovated, 3 bed, 1 bath,  1200 sq ft cape represent more than  1/3 of our total housing cost - and this on a house we bought 5 years ago for $500k with a conventional mortgage and downpayment.  The taxes will cause us to move even before we have our child in school. "
Property tax increases too much year over the year
Our property taxes are sky high and keep going up. Our youngest is going to be done with public school soon and we are talking about moving to a town with lower property tax rates
Feels like taxes far outweigh the services provided/we are able to use.
Real Estate taxes are very high
We are a single income family with four children. This is very rare in Lexington. 
The Community Center is turning into an expensive white elephant that does not serve seniors well. A beautiful place but its functioning is questionable. Not sure how much of the cost goes to taxes--but expense is there even if indirect.
"After kids are done with Lex public schools, we would consider moving out of town because of high property taxes. Town is wonderful and provides many great resources but wished there were a bigger business tax base so that the burden of taxes doesn't come upon residential property owners."
Single mother divorced no child support live in Lexington for 30 years lost home in divorce from domestic violence
Real estate taxes are twice that of surrounding towns and services available are less
"The taxes are escalating extremely rapidly, and I cannot plan on them.  Our tax base is residential, with ever-increasing school enrollment, and at the same time, retirement benefits for teachers (medical, etc) if I am correct will also escalate dramatically.  I am divorced, female, age 6[x].  Please do NOT say ""seniors want housing prices to escalate so they can sell.""  I do not want to sell.  You will only increase the school-age population disproportionately if you do not have a uniform age population. "
"Mortgage, utilities, are high cost versus the low percentage of salary increases from town employment "
I'm working now but i'm 6[x] and i don't know how i'm going to afford it; my kids are through the schools; if the costs push me out then the person that buys the house is going to be a family with kids in schools; it makes sense to me that you would try to keep me here to keep the school budget down
Tax increases are phenomenal
Taxes are too high in Lexington (Home values are way too high) I don't see how i can effort paying high taxes for the next 10 or 15 years and stay in my current home and retire !     
"I want to downsize and there are no options here in Lexington where I have lived for the past 46 yrs, raised my children, paid taxes, and have countless social contacts.  I have to look else where. "
"Housing prices in Lexington are very high - it's difficult to keep up with the mortgage and maintenance (house is older, it was what we could afford)."
Single mom of 2 teen boys interested in buying in Lexington but too expensive 
Not an enormous amount of stress but a huge part of my budget and not helpful for my long-term financial health.  More stressful when considered over the long term and when thinking about a down payment for a home.
Property taxes have increased so much.  Please do not increase tax for main residence any more.  Please find ways to save money.
"Property taxes are high for those on fixed incomes. Cambridge, for example, provides both a residential tax credit and an elderly tax credit. In 26 years of living there before coming to Lexington, the savings were significant just with the residential exemption."
"Housing in Lex is expensive. If one of two parents loses job, affordability becomes challenging"
Our children cannot participate in certain activities that they would like to because a large portion of our income goes towards our house. 
Taxes and water costs continually large increases
Large mansions all around our smaller ranch house are raising property taxes
"The property taxes of $8,000/year for retired couple, former [public employee], is very HIGH!  Our house is 1300 sq ft. One bathroom.  Why are these taxes so high?  I am looking into property tax credits etc for seniors.  The rates are very high for middle class people, who are retired."
We pay almost $3700 four times a year for property taxes.  Compared to other towns we talk to friends about they get almost twice the services we do here.
tax is too high
The property tax is too high due to substantial special education cost. 
The  taxes are too high. The town spends money at too high a rate 
"Property taxes are too high. Lived in town 47 years. Of those years, only 12 of them did our two children attend LPS. Thus we've subsidized the town to an extraordinary amount for what we pay."
Taxes
I worry that Lexington spends money without any concern for those on fixed incomes e.g. Purchase and demolition of Armenian School on Pelham.
the less income the more stress
I live in a continuing care retirement community and we pay a large sum in lieu of taxes - too hard to calculate here.
Concerns about rising taxes which increase our monthly payment every year
15year mortgage at 3% will be paid off
"Property taxes keep rising, however, I feel my property's assessment is too high."
"We do not have a mortgage on our house, hence the low monthly costs."
High property taxes
the taxes are crazy high
I consider myself fortunate - although I worked very hard for many years to achieve the level of financial comfort I currently have.  
Taxes are extremely high in Lexington.  Our mortgage payment and monthly expenses require the income of two working adults to support.
Single income earner with stay at home mom so if a job is lost then we have to rely on savings until a new job is found and hopefully quickly.
the mortgage is high but I can live with that. what is out of proportion for services received are the real estate taxes
"The taxes and utility rates are very high. I’m surprised all of Lexington does not have more affordable, more efficient and greener natural gas."
"Seniors with limited retirement income, taxes very high because of increasing population."
Lower property tax return. Do things unless it absolutely need.  
Even without a mortgage housing costs is too high.
Cost of electricity has skyrocketed since the town switched over to new system.
"Housing is so expensive, but we have ties to the community that are super compelling and the schools are great."
Lexington taxes
Concerned with costs because of pending retirement.
"Taxes are very high, largely because of school spending."
taxes are so high that I can't keep up with them.
One parent income with multiple children
Retired and have no mortgage. Real estate taxes are huge!
Property Taxes have syrocketed
"Paying taxes to support public schools without any direct benefit. The town budget and expenditures are geared to families. Ex:  town pool renovations didn't touch the locker rooms, but dressed up the toddlers' pool."
I’m afraid I may have to move if rent keeps going up!
"The tax rate never goes down, so I'm constantly looking to raise my income.  People on a fixed income must be leaving in droves."
Les taxes and more saving . Please negotiate with many different contractors to reduce costs . They love Lexington ( I heard) when they get your contracts because you pay too much . Hire a first class negotiator to negotiate a much better price for all the projects. I will be so happy to volentire my time for it . I'm a good negotiator .    
So many other monthly expenses. Makes it hard to save for college 
We have 4 kids under the age of 10
"The property tax in Lexington is too high, and the continuous increase has been even worse"
The town needs to stop spending so much money expecting the residence to continually cover the cost of whatever it is.  No doubt the town needs many things but it needs to spread out the expenses over a longer period of time.  Our taxes have tripled for same services and the McMansions while paying three times in taxes the town manages to spend that and more.    Stop the spending!
"My daughter had to leave us ,and live in different town, because we moved to smaller house, so we can afford the rent."
The costs are high for neighbors. 
Have to pay assisted living expenses
Our mortgage is paid off
Fixed income once retired!
"Expensive to live here but love the community, nice neighbors, love lexfun"
Property tax is too high & keeps on increasing
Our home is in need of repairs and upgrades which we have deferred due to cost.  I am embarrassed to have others over.
Have adequate financial resources to pay bills.  Would rather taxes weren't so high--and don't like to think about how high they are.  But also understand that taxes are necessary for services.
We made a healthy down payment in 2011 so mortgage balance is relatively low. 
Lexington seems to now be run by very affluent people who spend a great deal of money unnecessarily - everything must be the highest end and the very best - with no concern for cost.  I am fearful of where this is going - higher and higher taxes so people with the mcmansions can live out their fantasy of Lexington.
House is paid off
Total cost is very high and we would likely not be willing to stay e.g. if the stress from the schools led us to move our children into private education 
"We live in small house because we cannot find the size house our family of 4 would prefer - about 3000 square feet -- in our price range! We are not interested in a large property but almost all houses coming on the market are huge and cost close to $2 million or more!  The town is allowing affordable houses to be torn down with huge, unaffordable houses replacing them.  Former spacious lots now have huge houses crammed into them.  It is starting to resemble Cambridge."
Our house needs alot of upkeep and maintenance due to its age....we have postponed doing the necessary upkeep until we have the money and the time.
"My social security barely covers rent, a stretch to cover utilities, food auto"
This town is not affordable for us
Worried about increasing tax costs if we do any major remodel as well as annual incremental tax increases. 
Property tax consumes nearly all my social security income
"Our taxes have more than doubled since we've moved here 18 years ago.  We're both in our 70's and plan on staying in Lexington, but worry about affording our taxes as the years go by."
So appreciate the community center
Taxes too high. 
"In 2004 my husband and I bought our house in Lexington and our property taxes were $3000 a year. Now they have almost tripled and we are retired [living on retirement savings] and Social Security. We really love Lexington and believe in spending for good schools, etc., but it may not have been smart for us to move here in retirement."
"Property taxes are just too high for me, a retired person with no pension."
the property tax in Lexington is extremely high
"We are two mid-career working people so housing cost is less of an issue. However, housing price is by no means affordable in Lexington."
"Taxes have risen steeply and are too high. My feeling is that the assessment on our house is too high and I feel it was manipulated to increase the tax bill. Our house is old, small and in poor condition. If the taxes were lower, I would be able to fix the areas of the house that need to be repaired."
"I am paying $2,400 for a one bedroom with a study. The complex just renovated my kitchen and bath and I am terrified that they will raise my rent significantly and price me out..."
rents continue to go up and there is little affordable housing
"Lex is a very expensive town especially for elders.The taxes are explosive. The town is not going to improve. Poorly managed, i.e. Senior center too far to drive."
looking for a house to buy!  Too many builder homes over $1.5 million/ $2 million!   need more affordable housing!  not fancy.
Our child has significant medical expenses for cancer treatment. 
Affordable housing is important for a well rounded community. Please do something about these developers tearing down houses and putting up $1.7 m houses. 
We do not have a mortgage.  Figure above is estimate from when we did.
We have conservation land as a part of our back-yard which we never use. It really hurts to pay property tax on that area. The property taxes are increasing way too fast than the salary increase at our work place!
"I am a single mother with a college age daughter who is attending Middlesex Community College. I am disabled and our only income is my SSDI. I Am So Very Greatful And Thankful for us being able to be provided with the Lexpress, Town Pool And Community Center Passes!! Also for the Holiday Dinners and the Food Pantry Assistantance!!!"
Property tax raise too fast.
No mortgage 
I am paycheck to paycheck
until my daughter could attend public school and we could easily have two incomes it was very stressful to live here.
"Our taxes are very high and I can appreciate why, but when our street does not get repaired or resurfaced, after many Lexington streets are repaired 2-3 times, year after year just because we live on a circle, I question the fairness of our exorbitant property taxes. "
"I bought 8 years ago, so my house is still affordable. I could never afford my own house if I were to buy it now!"
Taxes increases year after year become a real burden
"We are both retired, and we moved here because the schools are excellent. My attitude is that if the people of the town care about education and their kids, they care about the town in general. I feel this way, even though I have no children. I have taught in the town for [] years. The real estate taxes are getting to us, though, as we enter our 70s."
I am retired with a paid-for house and plenty of assets
property taxes are very high.
The priorities of the town need to be better balanced regarding how the town spends tax dollars on projects that provide little value to the town an example of this is the unnecessary rebuilding of the visitor center 
Worried about increasing property taxes 
Taxes nesrly matching mortgage payment.
"House is paid off.  Only expenses are taxes, insurance, and upkeep"
"High cost on activities for kids that last few sessions and are only 30min. In [peer town] soccer was atleast an hour twice a week, here it is once a week for 30 min. Same for swimming."
Paying too much property tax !!! 
"Currently my spouse and I are both working, but we feel that we won't be able to stay in Lexington once we retire due to the property tax."
"Although Lexington offers services, they are high and not at all accommodating to working parents. For us to aford a house in Lexington, both of us need to work. Yet, the afterschool costs are prohibitive for multiple kids and the costs of the rev center programs run just as high as the other programs and the teachers are not good. The town pool costs are really high considering the limitations on using the pool between swim lessons, swim meets, etc. this town is not affordable for middle to upper middle class. There are people who can pay anything despite me cost and they can afford multiple nannies and everything in between. "
"Lexington tax rate has increased uncontrollably for a number of years.  There is no attempt by the democratic majority to control spending.
"
Free Pre-K program  would go along way and saving daycare costs 
"My first thought is that of, for some season, we ll lose our house, it would be really hard to fine another inwithin an affordable price. Of course the problem us that we have 3 kids in public schools"
property taxes are too high! runaway spending in the town!
We live in a condo with no mortgage and a reasonable monthly condo fee.
two fulltime working parents - otherwise level of cost would be unsustainable - this causes work/parenting type of stress
Our income has declined significantly in the past few years.  We are grateful that the value of our home has increased significantly.
Rental cost is too high for the property
lexington has high costs with very little services or amenities that are useful to all.  it is not hte same town I grew up in!
Rent rises each month about twice that of COLA
Too many rental units with children attending public school which makes the school overcrowded and put stress on higher property taxes
Rising taxes means the monthly mortgage goes up and this changes our entire budget significantly.
Property taxes increase +$400 each year.  What are you doing to reduce spending?  Need Conservative voices among the Selectmen. 
Our taxes have gone up quite a bit since we arrived 4 years ago. So much so that we are cutting back on other expenses to pay them.
High RE taxes make staying in Lexington a challenge.  
We are a one income household. So loss of income will force us to sell our place and move elsewhere.
We have no mortgage so only pay property taxes.
"We live in the small house that we bought over forty years ago.  We hope to be able to stay in Lexington in future years if we can continue to afford our home town.  Our high taxes are an issue for many retirees.  With new schools, fire and police buildings and other additional large expenditures happening, we and others are  worried that we will be forced to move to a town with lower taxes.  We do not want that to happen to us."
Mortgage long ago paid off.
As a retired person it is a significant amount of my monthly income. 
We anticipate moving as we move further into retirement as costs go up and income will go down. As of now property tax is high but affordable
With two young kids - the PITI costs are way high esp the taxes
We bought a house within our means and paid it off.
Fixed income doesn't really allow much room for increases.
It's a lot of stress
"As retirees with fixed income, we have concerns for future expenses as we age.  "
Retired; mortgage paid off
To rent a property that is ik n need of repairs and never being able to save enough money to buy a home in the town we have called home for 10 years 
"My husband is dead, and my house is paid off. I’d love to stay in Lex, but I am paying “full freight” and utilizing few services. I looked to see if there were any deals for my in the area of property taxes ($18,000). I didn’t qualify. I’m not Section 8 level. I sold my house [...]. The adults don’t [...] I’m not the first, and I won’t be the last. Get smart. Look at the housing demographics on each property. Don’t assume older people will stay because they can afford to. "
We no longer have a mortgage (paid it off after 32 years!) and have not done much upkeep or repairs recently.
"Lexington has very high taxes compared to surrounding, compatible towns "
"The increases in property taxes, along with the needs to maintain an older house, are of concern. I feel like the needs of the growing population and how it effects the schools and, therefore, the taxes is a significant issue."
The town is wasting money. 
"Just too much, as long as my property values continue to go up, we'll survive"
"Lexington is expensive. Though high mortgage can be stressful, I understand that the cost is an investment in schools and services."
"Though we appreciate all Lexington has to offer that we pay for with our taxes, it is unlikely we will be able to remain long term.  Taxes are pricing us out as well as there being limited housing appropriate for aging adults."
Changed circumstances from when we moved to Lexington put stress on our finances - currently single working parent with moderate salary - family of 4;
we pay $5700 a month for rent and there are only 2 adults and one high school student. It's obscene.  We moved into this house 6 years ago and the rent was $4200 but it's gone up every year.
"PROPERTY TAX REDUCTION FOR ALL  RETIRED SENIORS ""PLEASE, PLEASE"" T Y"
Generally the cost of living in this area is expensive and its not all about the taxes. I grew up in NYS where taxes were much higher but we didn't have so many infrastructure issues.
"Answer above should include opportunity cost of housing investment for owners without mortgages. Would add $1,500 for us."
Costs continue to rise with few benefits for seniors on limited incomes.
Monthly payment only manageable because mortgage has been paid off.
Property tax is too high in our town. 
"While this does not apply in my case, I am sadly disappointed in the lack of affordable housing in Lexington. I do not think my representatives are working effectively enough for this lack of economic diversity in our Town."
"The town does not appear to be attempting to save money. it buys any property that comes on the market (Armenian Sisters Academy, Liberty Mutual Building). These are luxury purchases, not necessities."
like most families housing is our biggest expense. 
Significant pressure from RE tax.
"We've lived in our small house since 1975, and the mortgage was paid many years ago."
"Real estate taxes are too high. Lexington should do something novel, like lowering everyone's real estate taxes instead of raising them every year!"
Property tax too high when we are not using school system.  We may decide to move to town with lower property tax
"We are fortunate to have a healthy budget.  Otherwise, we could not be in Lexington."
I am on fixed income
Rents are much too high
I am fortunate that my monthly housing expense fits within the budget that my income allows.
real estate taxes as a function of assessed value are higher than previously budgeted
"Property tax is our second biggest expenditure after health insurance. Close to, but not yet old enough, to qualify for senior citizen relief programs, but old enough that health issues have curtailed ability to main previous income levels."
Real Estate taxes definitely are creeping up.
"our taxes on a pretty modest 3 bedroom are abt $1,200/mo, the 3/44 acre property and older house are expensive to maintain— even just basic tree work and repairs.  we cannot afford other yardwork help, for instance and defer maintenance because income does NOT keep pace with tax increases!!!"
Property taxes are getting more and more outrageous. And please do not even consider loading more on to people/seniors with larger homes. Unless you like to drive them out of town. 
High tax rate - poor value.
...but inability to properly save for college
high tax rate
I have owned a home in Lexington for 30 years.  Property taxes have been rising at more than twice the rate of inflation for many years.  Town expenses and need to be reduced so that the yearly increase is no more than the level of inflation.
The cost of living in Lexington is extremely high. I would love to purchase and stay in Lexington but it is very hard to find affordable housing as a single parent household. Additionally I find the affordable housing program to be lacking in homes to purchase as well as inappropriate salary ranges for the Lexington area. 
Our property taxes jumped 20% this year on a re-assessment of the value although we have not done any improvements. It is really hard to absorb such a large increase. A smaller % every year would be much easier
"our house is old and is falling apart, we will never catch up"
"Less about the payment each month, more about the overall weight of house payment "
Cost of living is exorbitantly high and this contributes to significant turn over as families tend to sell their homes as soon as the kids complete high school
No mortgage.  Monthly housing cost above does not include utilities.
high taxes -  house assessment increase was astronomical
Property taxes keep going up and up. By the time our child graduates high school we won't be able to afford to live here anymore. 
"mortgage has recently been paid off after many years of higher expenses with raising children and living in this town over 42 years. the increasing taxes and 
mansionization are driving us from this now elitist town."
"Smaller real estate options to ""age in Lexington"" are few.  I grew up in Lexington, graduated from the school system.  My family has been here for 75 years.   My view is that Lexington has focused on replacing small homes with McMansions purchased by people who want the school system for their children with no intention of making Lexington ""home.""  Of course those homes provide valuable tax revenue that has enabled Lexington to grow exponentially and the resulting congestion.  Lexington is no long a nice little bedroom town!    So low income or high income options are available to those who qualify.   Few options are available for those who are healthy, vibrant may want to downsize and still be a property owner.  What's missing are small one level real estate options with attached garage and yard to ""age in Lexington."""
Cost of living continues to rise but wages or salaries do not rise 
1 person income
property taxes have gone up too much over last 10 years
"It bothers us that property taxes are less in other similarly situated towns with equivalent services.  At some point, we will likely have to move from Lexington because of the tax situation."
We have had a lot of medical expenses and incurred credit card debt due to having one income instead of two.
Property taxes are too high and we feel the the town often wastes the revenue it collects on programs and purchases that don't benefit us.
"When the taxes excalate our total housing costs by more than income in state employee job raises, it causes us to consider moving. This should not be and wasnt when we lived in CA. It would raise possibly a lot after you moved."
"The taxes are extraordinary!  Ours costs as much as one semester of our daughter's college tuition! There should be a way that residents can ""opt out"" of a few automatic expenses.  There are always ways that businesses (and our town is one) can re-evaluate where they spend their dollars and there is always waste! "
I'm concerned about escalating RE taxes as my income is fixed.
We are trying to save for a down payment but don't feel we will be able to find a home in our price range. We could afford a bigger mortgage but don't feel we should spend so much just on housing as we also want to save for college.
My real estate taxes went up more than 3K this year.
Lexington's taxes are much higher than some comparable communities and the transportation to Boston is very poor.  This enters into thoughts about what we are paying for our location.
High property tax in Lexington is a major issue to live in Lexington.
Taxes are high for what we receive and use
The relentless increase in our property taxes does not help
"When we moved to Lexington 21 years ago, our property tax was around $4600. Now it's over $12,000, and still going up faster than inflation. We won't be able to fully retire here."
"We had hoped to purchase a house in Lexington, but the cost is way out of our ability."
"Once we retire, we are very concerned with our qtrly tax bill of $4,000. Candidly, after 33 years, we may decide to sell and find a community with Real Estate Taxes in the $6 to $8 K range,  annually. We've loved Lexington but may be to expensive on a fixed income basis.   "
Incredibly high cost for small home
Costs of living are unsustainable and beyond ridiculously unaffordable. 
Taxes are very high
want to  buy a house but cost is way expensive..
"Last spring I ran out of heating oil, the property tax bill pushed out the refill until early summer. This coming year I will drop my homeowners policy because there is no room left in my budget with the increases."
We stay within our budget 
We put down a large amount to ensure our mortgage would be affordable on one income.
My husband is still working at age 7[x] but when he retires I am quite concerned about our property taxes. We have an adult child with special needs living with us and cannot downsize or move very easily.
Taxes are out of control
Very good and lively town; community diversified and inclusive as well; Offer a lot of activities/programs to residents at various levels. But cost of living is high. Property tax rate is high relative to the neighboring towns. Transportation to Boston is not convenient. 
"I think my stress comes from after school problem.The after school program in this town is horrible. There's not enough service for every child. A lot of residents have two incomes. I have to put my job on hold to take care of my kids after school since Estabrook doesn't have enough space for the kids and they don't allow shuttling kids to other schools of local clubs like YMCA, Boys and Girls clubs that may have space. If you look around Burlington, Woburn, Winchester, for example, they do provide buses to take kids after school, while this town make it like a competition. "
"Due to high property values, the tax rate should be lower to make the town more affordable.  "
"We were lucky enough to pay a very small house in 2011, when prices were quite low. We would not have been able to buy a house here if the prices were what they are now, or if all the small houses were being ripped down the way they are now."
Making some more sports 
We are senior citizens living in a small cape and coping with increasing property taxes.
"Although we have retirement funds available, our only income is from social security."
"Lexington has become absurdly expensive to live in over the past several years.  Average people with average jobs can no longer afford to live here and even those with traditionally affluent jobs often require duel incomes to make end meet. Also a comment on your property tax question: who designed this question? It is obviously biased. When you include the option “little taxes” ranging from 1% to 25% you learn nothing.  Yes 1% to 5% that is a little tax, but 15 to 20% that is high!  The entire question is biased to make taxes look low here when in fact they are through the roof"
We need bigger place as my parents stay with us. However we can't afford easily what we need. 
Real estate taxes are too high and are making it hard for fixed income retirees to remain in this community.
Taxes are to high
While we do not experience stress with household expenses I know that others do and I do care about programs that allow seniors to age in place in their own homes on a fixed income. 
None
Raising a teen and caring for self off $750/mth is just hard
"I bought a small [house] from a friend 20 years ago- I had an unusual break. I had been recently laid off [...],, so I contributed to my church and public school with time (not money).. I know I could  not enter the Lexington housing market today . The  lack of affordable housing pressures families into dual high income careers, making it harder to find volunteers who contribute at all levels."
I always think at least once a week if something happens to my husband ( ( corporate lawyer and the higher income) I will never be able to afford living in Lexington with my income as a clinical director in a non profit [].  [].  I have been living here for 14 years . 
We have paid off the mortgage 
The property tax increased too much  
I exist in a state of near homelessness and extreme poverty.  I fight to live indoors for a few weeks at a time.  I am on the waiting list of subsidized housing but the wait is years long.  I am rent burdened 80% of my disability check.
"I don't think that all fixed income qualifying residents know that they can defer their RE taxes at an extremely low interest rate, util their property sells.  How can we get this knowledge of this very generous town benefit to every financially struggling resident who qualifies?"
I live on a fixed retirement income of which property taxes are the major expense.  Because my home is in a Trust I can not make use of any of the tax credits or CPA exclusion.
My primary payment is quarterly real estate tax.  So high.
Cost continues to rise
Lexington is expensive
"BEING A LONGTIME RESIDENT & A RETIRED SENIOR  CITIZEN WITHOUT A RETIREMENT PAYMENT PLAN,  IT WOULD BE MOST HELPFUL IF THE ""TOWN PROPERTY TAXES""  WOULD BE REDUCED FOR ALL RESIDENT SENIORS, GRATEFULLY.  T  Y 

"
Property taxes are way too high in Lexington. I don’t understand the continual increases especially since many houses are being replaced by larger houses which would provide additional property tax revenue. People with children in the public schools should pay more tax. I may not be able to afford staying in Lexington because of the tremendously expensive property tax. I love it here and it makes me sad that I may have to move. Perhaps people in the rental properties should pay a surcharge to attend the public schools here (probably not legal to do so) but they move here for the schools and then leave.  How is that affecting our community?
"Taxes are way too high, we wished we had a tax exemption program in place."
"I own the house outright, so that monthly costs are limited to taxes and insurance."
Tax Rate with a fixed income
We moved here for the schools years ago and do not want to leave as we love the town but the rental and housing market is a bit out of control.
Mortgage paid
taxes seem high; seems like town can try to reduce costs more
"My wife (59) is the only with a full-time job. I'm semi-retired (6[x]) and we have two [children in school]. Our income is not enough to cover our current standard of living, so we are making efforts to remain in Lexington until our [children] graduate. Thereafter it may be impossible for us to remain in town."
we have no mortgage and pay only taxes
Taxes keep increasing and even when the mortgage payments will be done we will still pay nearly $1200 per month for property taxes. This becomes an issue as we age and retire
I don't know how much the mortgage is I am not the homeowner
The town spends far too much on schools which provide an abysmal education.
Taxes are my stress.  My taxes have doubled since I moved to Lexington.  I have made sacrifices to live in Lexington which i planned but do not agree with increasing taxes to pay to make it cheaper for others to live here.
The quality of the home for the price is not reasonable.
We are very fortunate 
I'm paying more taxes than principal!
"Our house is paid, so we don't stess about total costs, but we do stress about rate of increase in our property taxes."
Real estate taxes seem to be increasing at exponential rates with no benefits for senior citizens.
"Lexington has gotten ridiculously expensive, especially with children not attending the public schools."
Need lower property taxes 
Rent is rising twice as fast as wakes
"Stretched our budget to the limit to be able to move to town. The only way this was possible is that we bought my parents house - we got a slight discount from market value (debatable) and our mortgage through them so the rate is extremely low. Our mortgage payment is $2004/month and the tax payment (on 1,900sqft cape house) is $1,100/month. Average $125/month for insurance. Our gross annual income (both parents work full time) is $155K; we spend $20K on fed/state taxes; $25K into 401Ks; $40K on the house (mtg, taxes, insurance); $55K on full time daycare for 2 children (age 3 and 1); $6K on utilities (oil, electric, phone, tv); $5K on cars (insurance, fuel, repairs, taxs; no car payments); $5K on groceries for family of 4. This leaves NEGATIVE $1K in our annual budget for EVERYTHING else (doctors, clothing, sports, activities, pets, travel (ha), entertainment, ""wants""). Almost none of the expenses are things that we can reduce the cost of if we stay in Lexington (we could get rid of cable and our phones and save $2K, but we would cry), so we are really cognizant of ANY increase in annual costs in any of these categories. Pretty much the only one that is guaranteed to increase each year are our real estate taxes (and childcare while they are still < age 5). Even a measly increase affects us adversely.  We get a (tiny) financial scholarship from our daycare to help keep costs steady year-to-year. We are essentially going in the black until our kids make it to public school - at that point our childcare will go from $55K to $10K (for lextended day) so we will finally have a little bit extra to fund our IRAs and pay for activities for our children, buy clothes, pay doctors, etc."
"No problem making payments given income, but jobs are stressful and level required partly due to lifestyle, especially mortgage and home."
"My property taxes are 1/10th my income.  My estimated income tax is also 1/10 my income.  By the time I'm done paying my bills (401K, retirement, electric, etc.), I end up with $300 to $500 a month to live on.  For everything.  The ironic part is that I'm too young for senior discounts (only 6[x]) and I make too much to qualify for low income.  I haven't bought any new clothes in approximately 5 years."
Please lower the property tax. 
"Do have concerns about rising property taxes, especially with new federal tax laws"
"Heating and power, cable and food prices are all higher than I would like to see them."
the town has allowed /rubber stamped all builder requests for available land to build many highly priced homes.  This should have been stopped years ago. 
"As interest rates increased, our mortgage ballooned"
Seniors with limited income
we do not have a mortgage--costs are just insurance & taxes
No longer have mortgage on home
"We have no mortgage so property taxes are our largest home expense.  This is not a complaint - it's not a burden, and we are happy with town services.  "
We paid off our mortgage and only pay property tax and insurance. We live in a home beneath our means and feel comfortable with our monthly housing costs.
"We are fortunate to be able to afford the ever-growing taxes, but without school-aged children at some points the cost of the taxes will exceed the pleasure of living in Lexington and we will move to a less expensive community. We feel that there are too many families who Iive in Lexinton only to educate their kids and as soon as the last kid graduates they move to a town with lower taxes. This leaves us - long-term residents - subsidizing these transient families. That does not seem fair."
Property tax has been increasing significantly every year.
Real Estate tax increases difficult 
taxes keep going up but our retirement pension can't keep up with the increases
