"Not eligible for a property tax deferral (age) tax work-off covers only 10% but this becomes a moral question. These programs are a cruel hoax on senior citizens in town. Why do I have to work till I die, when others come in educate their children then leave and actually financially benefit from the capital gains on the sale of their property. And I have to pick up their costs. Robin Hood in reverse."
The question about the cost of living at our property vs. the portion related to property taxes is unclear and could be interpreted more than one way.
"good questions. I would like to understand what % of residents are, by plan, short term residents"
Lexington is very expensive place to live
"The tax burden is significant and becoming more so.  Why do we usually seem to choose the deluxe version when a lesser version is ample, e g. the community center, design for new police station."
I will interested in seeing the cumulative results
"This town has changed so much since I first moved here, and it makes me sad. The only reason we haven't moved away is because of the schools and because we were in subsidized housing. I hate driving down streets like Grant street or Maple Street and seeing where there used to be a street full of ranches or capes, and now the street is filled with $1-2+ million dollar mansions. Since so many of the more modest-sized homes are gone, there is little chance I will ever be able to buy a home in Lexington."
We'd really like to stay in retirement but need to find a lower property tax.
The Town should consider a Residential Property Tax Exemption without using an archaic needs based test.
"Thank you for doing this. I hope it provides valuable feedback and insight into individuals' living circumstances. I know that while some are living with their means, others are on the edge. It is important that we take this into consideration when we propose tax increases."
No question in my mind that Lexington is pushing out elderly on fixed incomes!
I think the assessment on my house is too high.  I can only see the taxes going up with all the building going on.  There should be some consideration for seniors.
Property tax increases are a major concern along with health care costs.  
"Tax relief based on income would be very welcome. Or, if the increases in taxes are due to increased students in LPS, some way to limit developers cashing in on the reputation of the Lexington schools (by limiting or holding the developers accountable for the increased costs the new students place on existing residences) would be welcome. Maybe developers should have to pay a huge fee or penalty for every child they add to the school system from their profit, to help alleviate the increased burden they would put on the town."
I appreciate this survey. I would like some follow up regarding data and action going forward.
I hope you will publish the results!  Thank you.
"I strongly believe property taxes are driving senior citizens out of Lexington. If that is the case, my family of 2 seniors will be replaced by a family with children to educate, or someone else who creates a larger demand on town resources, such as schools, creating even higher property taxes. The town has been delinquent in not creating other revenue streams, or properties other than residences,  which will create higher tax payments, such as the development of Hartwell Ave. I also believe that the development of very high cost housing stock has created a town of a different nature from the one that existed when I moved here, with a reputation for being a ""rich town"" rather than a ""modest"" one. Living in a ""rich"" town with little economic diversity is extremely negative to me. I was disappointed, for example, that my 4 children, who were born here, grew up and were educated here, could not afford to buy a home and live here despite reasonable family incomes.

It is distressing to me to see the town spend mega millions on new town facilities, however necessary, without exploring potential cost savings, such as regional facilities, rehabbing the old ones, etc. Just build and damn the cost!"
"It is encouraging to see the town is looking into the cost of living.  Property taxes are very high and getting higher, causing some to give strong consideration to leaving a town they love...especially those who have lived here many, many years or for most all of their lives.   The cost of housing is also out of reach for many.  It feels like Lexington is becoming exclusive and out of reach financially for those who are moving into their senior years.   I hope you will be communicating back the results of the survey and action steps that arise from the information.  Thank you for conducting this survey. "
I think I filled out this form earlier.
PLEASE focus on making it affordable for those of us who LOVE Lexington and don't want to have to move because it is becoming unaffordable. We longtime residents have much to give back to our community and want to stay. But not if taxes keep going up and up and up. Surrounding towns with lower tax bases are looking more and more attractive.  PLEASE focus on this issue.
Thank you
I question whether you will receive representative responses in this survey. The questions stop short of obtaining some important demographic information. Why no questions on race/nationality??
Would like to receive the final report of this survey by email
"If one has paid off the mortgage on one's house the cost given will not reflect what is really happening - is this case the cost is all taxes, insurance, and upkeep - with no mortgage payment involved the numbers may appear low."
Are you accounting for learning disabilities and mental illnesses? 
Taxes make it impossible to retire and stay in lexington. I was born in 195[x] in Lexington and I am 3rd generation living in lexington. The changes are dramatic and unfortunate for the average person to sustain.
It is a relief to be able to give voice to our concerns.  Thank you for this thoughtful survey.
"Please look for ways to have Lexington a lifetime town, not a move-in with preschool kids, move out when the kids graduate from high school.  "
Happy take part in the survey to help in the town's planning.
Lexington needs to control spending and be more diligent  regarding capital expenses as most families move here for schools and re-building the two middle schools and high school should  be the ONLY priority of major projects for the town next ten years.  
"Little things like parking add up in Lexington.   It might cost me $1 or $2 to park for an errand in the Center.  Arlington Heights still doesn’t charge.  $5/week x 50 weeks is $250!!!   This is crazy, so I have to use the 15 minutes grace or park at the battle green spaces to keep that cost down.  We have to do everything possible to keep expenses down.  ~We are house/tax (ironic, right?!) poor and proud in Lexington, but if there is a layoff, for instance, we will have no choice but to move much sooner than 8 years.  It is sad we can’t even envision downsizing here.  "
Would have given it more time if more information was shared about who and why 
Town taxes are just too high for us not to have a modern High School that accommodates the increasing student population. Our family would also love to have a year-round public swimming facility in town.
Thank You
I appreciate that you are thinking about the impact of property taxes.
Property tax is high in Lexington. But this is a great town with terrific schools and services and offerings and people. 
like to use rent lincoln soccer field with lights
"While housing and living expenses are not stressful for my family, they are for many in Lexington. And many of those people move out, decreasing the economic diversity of our town. This, in turn, makes Lexington more homogeneous economically, with more high income families. In my opinion, this makes the town less appealing for many."
"Unclear how this information will be used.  Property tax percentage cost not well phrased:  1-25% is a hugely significant range!  1% is little, 20-25 % is substantial."
none
"I am always shocked and disappointed when folks say there should be affordable/low income housing in Lexington.  Lexington is an expensive town due to the great town it is including services, schools, location, visible beauty, etc.  Therefore it makes no sense to me that we should pretend that we should have affordable/low income housing.  "
Not really a feasible place to live as a one income household
"Even if I do not need programs for my own household I fully support programs to help others.  The town invests quite a bit in the school system, town fields & conservation areas, etc and I think also needs to invest in programs for those that no i get have kidsnin the schools, using playing fields, etc. "
"PLEASE, PLEASE CONDUCT A YEARLY SURVEY SO THAT OUR TOWN OFFICIALS ARE AWARE OF
OUR STRUGGLES TO STAY IN TOWN
AS A LONG TIME ( 50yrs ) RESIDENT,
GRATEFULL FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.  T Y"
"We love Lexington but as the kids leave the nest, the fact that property taxes increase and retirement is getting closer, we are not sure we will choose to stay here due to the high taxes. "
"I Love Being Able To Be A Resident on Lexington!! Most Beautiful town by far!!! I am so very thankful and grateful for all the wonderful help, love and support we have always received here! Even when all 3 of my children were young!!"
"Lexington is a great town, but if builders continue to be Huge expensive houses, the feel of the town will change."
Limited in scope. 
"Seems doubtful that the info will lead to any action that will make Lexington more affordable.  Lex is great while the kids are in school, otherwise it seems time to move on"
Survey is comprehensive.
"Lexington has become even more unbalanced in housing costs. Building of massive homes, development, and rezoning from residential to commercial, Out of Control. Financial strain to stay here is not worth the benefits. The schools are overcrowded, and the town keeps building. Very disappointed."
Not good 
I wish to stay in Lexington.  Being able to defer property taxes helps me a great deal.  Thank you for making it available at a reasonable percentage rate.
"Please stop inflating home values, it is causing property tax to go up and up!"
"This is definitely NOT a good way to determine anything.  Send a survey out to people at all neighborhoods.  EX: Our trash pickup and recycling pickup is ridiculous. We have THREE SMALL containers for recycling and we bought our own garbage containers. Cambridge, Somerville, Watertown, Belmont ALL provide the containers for both garbage and recycling.  "
Keep the services.
Good survey!
how will you provide this results back to the community?
"Thanks for asking!  The affluent have taken over the town and are forcing everyone to pay extra for what they and their kids want.  They can afford to pay it privately, why make everyone in town, especially those who aren't as well off, pay extra taxes to benefit the rich???"
The primary link on the email went to a town registration page that required login credentials. Very confusing. 
"I love living and working in Lexington, but the cost of living while balancing my kids needs inhibits how much I can truly enjoy what the town has to offer."
Some of the ranges in the multiple choice seem too broad - question whether results will be actionable?
Thanks for sending this out. I imagine it will prove helpful and happy to help.
Thank you
Can you please extend the Mabee swimming pool season - just the school holiday is too short and september is mostly hot enough to swim outside
Not sure what the purpose of the survey is. The town offers great services and schools but is expensive. Will services be reduced: NO. will taxes be reduced: NO. 
Please consider providing more affordable housing for seniors. Our parents in law are living with us but they would benefit having their own place. They are still working and paying their taxes but the Lexington real estate market is too expensive for them to buy a small place. 
"If this email is really from the Town, it should clearly say so."
Intrusive 
We do want to stay longer in Lexington but finances may force us out.
".I have seen extreme changes in the town because of the change in housing. Something needs to be done for those people who have lived in the town so long.  After 4[x] yrs of paying taxes, raising my children here, I am forced to look for housing elsewhere in order to downsize and to adjust to my new retirement income.  The problem is very complicated since there is such an overwhelming ""international"" influence in the town population, as well.  If there is affordable housing, outside of Muzzey, the information is extremely difficult to access and not kept in one central location/office with clear and direct procedures.  Other neighboring towns, like Concord, have done much more in this regard.   I have been terribly disilusioned.    "
"My property taxes have risen from 4,000 in 1995 to over 17,000 in 2018.  Property taxes are higher than my mortgage and will be the reason I move out of Lexington"
Would like to know how this information will be used.
"IMHO, should put every question on a survey, on a single page, so people know how long it will take."
"My mortgage holder (my mortgage originator sold my loan to [company]) denies my participation in the town's state-enabled property tax deferral program for an arbitrary, trivial reason not based on my circumstances such as loan-to-value ratio, credit rating, and so on.  I didn't know to anticipate this stumbling block.  Might a coordinated persuasion/lobbying effort (with notable townspeople on board) to change the bank's policy be arranged?  The Center for Study of Retirement at Boston College says that about 26 states have property tax deferral programs--I'm not making an extraordinary request of the bank. 
Community Reinvestment rules may be interpreted to require that banks support a senior citizen property tax deferral program.  //  It's documented that I'm hard working, accomplished, and capable, yet since the last recession I've faced barriers to employment that I would not have imagined.  Also I have [multiple post-high-school children] at home who, with neurocognitive disabilities and mental health concerns, require special support.   My 28-year-old son cannot earn a living."
Sincerely hope Lexington can help find a life/work balance for all household incomes within our town.
We haven’t used the town pool as it there is no shade and not kid friendly. We opted to join neighborhood pool instead 
there needs to be more affordable housing availability for those over 60 &/or reitree's without children to help to maintain the diversity of our community
"The town put in a splash pad playground--that you can only use if you pay to join the pool! That is shameful. Other towns have lovely splash pads for kids to play in that are open to all. (See--Amesbury, Medford, Waltham, etc).  Also, I think it is self-defeating and insane this town has refused to allow marijuana dispensaries. The tax income from even just one of these (say, out by Hanscom where all the other pharma companies are) could alleviate the property tax burden and support our schools too. I was disgusted with this town I live in when that ban was put in place. Please reconsider."
Who are you guys?  You never indicate. I’m not disclosing some info because I don’t know who you are!
Thanks for conducting this survey. Please share the results.
"Interesting questions, I would think almost all this data could be found elsewhere... Potentially more reliably"
Mssing questions include 1) what services would you like to see? 2) what services could you do without? 3) why did you not use particular service?
I assume this will be anonymous
Expensive to live in this area but I think Lexington offers a lot and overall a great value.
your wage ranges are too big; making $200K and up is no 'high income'.  You also need to be asking about how many wage earners in in the family.  A household making 200K with two wage earners is quite different than a household making 250K with one wage earner.
"Questions about availability of senior transportation were not specific enough
I.e. A Senior Town transport vehicle"
More needs to be done to make Lexington more accessible to a wider range of income levels. So many more modest homes are being torn down and replaced with new home twice the size and 3x the price. And new developments are not affordable to many as well. Our schools are expanding rapidly—putting lots of pressure on our school department to meet enrollment needs and the town to fund new classrooms. The town really needs to have a plan in place to address this rapid growth and the financial pressures it has placed on our entire community. More also needs to be done to make commuting into and around Boston easier—the state really needs to invest in expanding public transit and making more efficient. These two issues—housing costs/taxes and commute time are the reasons we consider leaving Lexington in the future. 
"Thank you ,I hope you will help to get my family back together. "
"We need another survey about commercial presence in town.  I miss bookstores, inexpensive - moderate clothing stores, unique shops.  Have to go to Concord."
How much is the town compensated with the annual 4th of July Lion's Carnival?  There is so much destruction to the green with extensive repair required.  Is the revenue sufficient to cover the cost of all the repairs?
"Again there should be limited number of land provided to builders.  In addition, to make town more affordable, there should be a limit that say every 3 homes a builder builds that exceed 1.7M - they should be required to build a home a teacher or first responder could afford.  And then the town could perhaps have a lottery system for that home for local employees that might not be available to afford a home in the town, otherwise.  I grew up here and the town was significantly more economically diverse.  Allowing builders to consistently tear down reasonable sized homes and put too big a home on too small a lot has caused most of this. TM and the Town need to have much more strict lot/house size limits and there should be HARSH (Like 5-10% selling price) penalties for builders who exceed lot limits, set backs, etc.  There's too much ""i know everyone in town government"" so i can get away with whatever. "
None 
I would like to see the town do more regarding composting food waste and better recycling options
Results from this survey would be very helpful.
"We are concerned with the constant capital projects in the town related to town services, fire station, Cary Hall, DPW garage, community center,  in a time where we have and have had multiple school projects at the same time .  And many of the town streets are in poor condition and unsafe for kids and bicyclists."
"Increasingly feel that Lexington is pricing out anyone who can’t afford a multimillion dollar house. As long as we continue to allow unchecked tear downs and homes that take up the full lot, there’s little chance for any economic diversity in this town. We stay for the schools, but once our kids are out, I see no reason to stay. Downtown is sad and other amenities are just as accessible to visitors as they are for residents. If we had to do it again, we probably wouldn’t choose Lexington. The schools are great, but if your kid isn’t Harvard bound, the stress just isn’t worth it."
"Property taxes going up so often is the main reason we are considering leaving town. We don't qualify for the existing program to defer payment. Also, currently one has to have a prior year below the income threshold to qualify, so it precludes us from staying in Lexington by working part time."
"We will be downsizing in the next 5-10 years. The combination of property taxes and the lack of new, smaller private homes in good condition, we do not anticipate being able to stay in Lexington. Living in a complex (e.g. Potter Pond) and paying common charges is not an option that we are willing to consider. Therefore, we will most likely be moving out of Lexington."
Unclear why you are doing this survey? What will you do with the results? 
Interesting survey -- I look forward to seeing the compiled results.
Interested to know how you will publicise the results of the survey and actions 
Hope it is useful and can lead to better care of our community
"Thanks for looking for solutions to the lack of affordability of Lexington. Our kids have excellent jobs and yet they'd have a hard time affording a house in Lexington - something that we find very sad.  
"
just starting to ask the right questions for a change
i moved my son from public schools because the support for his disability was insufficient.
"Not employed by the town, but do volunteer."
Serious need for increased affordable housing and for single adults and adults with adult children as cannot make young adult homeless and need more housing for senior citizens not ghettoized in only senior complexes
"Certainly property taxes are high, but we see great value from town services. Living on Mass Ave close to the bike path, for example, we appreciate the prompt plowing of sidewalks in the winter; quick access to the great, well-maintained Minuteman path; and friendly help from police involved in traffic control or construction projects. We've also been very impressed by the quality of Lexington employees. Thank you."
"I am 82 years old and have been living in my own home in Lexington for 60 years, the taxes of 10,000 a year are not easy to deal with."
"Lexington center dining shopping and entertainment had lost its soul long ago and the abundance of realtors, salons and banks saddens us.  A proactive idea for a rent control program for fledgling start up businesses was floated at a 20-20 meeting and was met with much skepticism. Too bad."
"1. The schools have become so large and overcrowded, there are no opportunities for kids to participate in any extra-academic/extra-curricular activities: 150-200 kids show up to compete for a spot in a school team with 10 kids. The town needs to do something to discourage this crazy expansion of the school system. 

2. The high school is in the top 10 largest high schools in MA along with Lowell and Brockton. https://www.niche.com/k12/search/largest-public-high-schools/s/massachusetts/ 

What is the town's plan to fix this?
 "
"Rather than authorizing more tear-downs and replacing them with McMansions, the Town should consider actually buying up these smaller, older properties and reselling them to a buyer with a limited income (at a price they can afford). This would encourage a greater mix of income levels and professions in town, as well as ensuring the Town still has some properties with <4000 sq ft that are reasonable to heat when the price of fuel oil finally hits $10/gallon. Yes, it sounds like this would be a money losing idea for the town, however I would see it as either an investment or insurance for when the value of the McMansions finally plummet and no one is willing to buy them any longer.

We should also provide housing and studio opportunities for artists. Places like Somerville and Cambridge are so vibrant, and part of that stems from the wonderful mill buildings that have been converted into artist space. Artists would infuse the Lexington community with life, creativity, fun, and excitement - all things which are lamentably missing from our town!"
I'm glad I could share the difficulty of our property taxes.
Taxes are to high
Lessen the partisan ideology and rhetoric as many do not have trust funds
"Have you classified citizens using senior services community based on census classification
Diversity inclusion topic is going on in this town but would not know unless you have a breakdown like in lexington school systems  Chinese Americans Indian Americans Korean Japanese Vietnamese east European Middle East etc 
Would help diversity task force for programnas etc"
"High property tax (injustice) makes it so difficult for me to think of saving for retirement.  It makes it hard to stay in Lexington although we have reasonable income, we won't afford going on vacation.  Most of my income goes to mortgage and high tax."
The taxes have gotten so high.  Services are reduced (take for example garbage collection not doing a once-a-year move-out option).
I believe the survey touched upon facts/issues which will provide a fair (but incomplete) assessment of living conditions in Lexington
This town is so expensive to live in!! My family can’t move to be closer which puts a strain on us with aging parents
"I would like to see town services especially schools, library and trash collection regionalized at the county level to save money. Do not implement a residential exemption that simply shifts the tax burden to other residents. Cut town services particularly schools to make up for any shortfall created by any residential exemption."
Thank you for asking these questions. 
someone actually knew how to write a survey!  Congrats.
I think the department(s) issuing this survey could have identified themselves more clearly with a phone number so I could verify the identity with a call back and also check Town Phone list.
Good
Will results be shared publically?
Thanks for asking these questions.
"Wish that the majority of smaller homes would not be torn down, as I feel the newer homes place many people out of the current housing market."
"Remaining in Lexington is
becoming difficult because
of the ever increasing pro-
petty taxes.  We have three
children with their families
living here. We have lived
in
town since 196[x] and will
hate to leave. Seniors need
a  break on property tax"
Easy and quick. thanks
We won't be able to afford to stay in Lexington when we retire.
I would like to hear what action is taken based on the survey
Hard for senior citizens to continue to live here.. taxes!
Any possibility of lowering the town taxes . 
"As a senior citizen, this survey did not address any any of our concerns such as elimination of the CSA property tax assessment &  some relief on real estate taxes."
"The town focus seems mostly on schools. Hard to justify or property tax without children in schools. I wish the infrastructure in town was better maintained (roads, sidewalks).  "
the income amount is tough because most people who choose to live here have  careers that are lucrative....divorce can cause financial ruin but not enough to qualify....should consider on a case by case situation especially if having been a town employee
"Schools are critical to town and worth supporting fully; should try to limit increase in school population due to crowding that means limit development; open space is great to maintain; public works needs to step up and do more gardening that the elderly ladies in the garden club are doing now including the French garden; there are ways to reduce property taxes and every penny should be tried to be found to get them lower; try to get unions to contribute 25% to health care would be one savings; also if no matching funds best not to collect ""extra"" tax payments; every elementary school needs before school care for working parents (8:45 is insane) or use the Hayden and send buses from there"
I would love to see an indoor swimming pool added to the Community Center someday.
"Town really needs to stop spending so much money in order to stop they terrible rise in property taxes.    You can't go out and spend all this money and then start feeling about the people who the town goes after, which is everyone, to pay for whatever it is."
As tax reform and property tax can not be deducted and really Hope town consider lower the tax rate. use our tax money as their own money. 
Thank you
What will you do with this info?
"Not enough categories CCRC, nursing home, assisted living, etc"
Preserve the open space and character of the town!  Ban and limit the volume of expansion permits!!
"Cost of living in Lexington is incredibly high, and it's very depressing to watch all the smaller and more affordable homes in our neighborhood torn down for million dollar, unattractive box homes.  When we moved here we had a charming neighborhood with a good mix of backgrounds.  No longer.  We'll probably leave after the kids finish school."
I am hoping the town is considering giving seniors who have lived in Lexington for many years an incentive to spend their remaining years enjoying this wonderful town.
"Definitely need more affordable housing to promote greater economic diversity.  Would welcome a type of zoning that limits the size of the house allowed on the property, so future owners could not tear down our current home and build one that is 2x-3x the size/cost of what currently exists.  It would certainly impact our resale value but we would do that to keep ""affordable"" housing stock in the town.    "
"Lexington is a terrific town. We have been blessed to have raised our family in Lexington. We didn't really take advantage of the Public School system. we had a bad initial experience with Bowman School (many years ago). We also believe that Lexington School system is terrific for those families with exceptionally talented children or if they require special needs / services. If your child doesn't fall on either spectrum, we believed there were better options outside of the school system. "
Well designed survey
"Please do a survey on traffic safety, hazardous crossings, lack of signals and proper lane markets (no reflectors embedded in our roads)"
Thank you for asking the residents of the town our opinion and for taking the time to read the comments.
"Lexington is a wonderful town to live in!  So many opportunities for activities, exercise, friendship.  Property taxes are high, but we do receive a lot of benefits.  "
Stop building huge residences and change the center with less banks. Eledwrlt families should be grandfathered in for taxes. 
Thanks for reaching out to the community.  I hope many folks respond to the survey
"You need to include an ""other"" option for disabilities within the household.  My disability does not fit into any of those categories."
we paid off our mortgage so our monthly is insurance and prop tax
"Although we are fortunate not to suffer from housing insecurity, evictions and other housing insecurity issues are an enormous problem in the greater Boston area. The 10% requirement for affordable housing in new developments does very little to address the issue. I would like to see Lexington be much more proactive in making more affordable housing available in town, rather than holding to the 10% line and saying ‘we’ve done enough.’  It’s not enough—take a look at some eviction and housing need statistics for the Boston area. Thanks. "
"I think it's important to note in your questionnaire regarding if people are considering leaving (when interpreting findings) that responses may not be related to the costs (for us, it has nothing to do with taxes, etc- it's the cold weather so relocating would be to a warmer state!).  "
"I moved from a different town in MA where taxes and home values were low and so was quality of services, schools etc. Lexington is in a different league. I think town need to invest more in schools which are facing overcrowding and hence quality is suffering. "
Real estate assessments and taxes (and capital spending) are out of control.  The CPA surcharge should be reduced.
Alot of guess work about costs
Very concerned about the extravagant building projects and rapid increase in taxes.  When will the wealthy homeowners say that’s enough?  Commercial development has been neglected for a very long time.  Probably too late for the Hartwell ave discussion.
Housing prices are too high and homes are too large. Too many tear-downs!
I think the problem of property taxes forcing fixed income residents out is a problem. 
i love living in lexington-think it is a great well run town
Seems well constructed.
It would be great to have newer senior detached housing on one level for us to stay in Lex. when we decide to downsize.
"While our house now is reasonable for us, moving into a potentially bigger house may prove to be a huge obstacle. We live in a pretty small house compared to the rest of town. We have been talking about potentially moving but with a bigger house skyrocketing to a million dollars or more, it is very prohibitive especially with the mansionization in town and many houses going for over listing or being sold to builders. We will get a nice return on our house but it may not be enough to offset the difference in being able to afford to go up one more bedroom."
Thank you
Town taxes versus Bridge School experience make Lexington a poor value.
"Lexington is insanely expensive and a model of conspicuous consumption. But we all move here for the schools and location. We live in a small, old house in the oasis of East Lexington and would never want to “compete with the Joneses.”"
Please reduce Town and Property taxes! It is ridiculously high and making Lexington difficult to live in.
Ok
seems O.K. to me.
This did not seem to reflect my values.  Personally I'd be a lot happier with greater ethnic diversity.  What exactly do we do to help with affordable housing for example?  And how is the town approaching the need for more affordable office space for individuals who are in fields that are not lucrative (eg mental health professionals)?
"V important survey, but not confident it will help!"
Town must improve public transport for people to commute to cambridge/boston. 
Not difficult.  Hope my response is of some value.
"Love living in Lexington. Other than that the house is too big for two people, property taxes would be second biggest reason to move."
While the town needs many things it spends money without thinking about how negatively this will effect the people who live in Lexington.  Making living here affordable.     The town has also allowed the Schools to be bullied into becoming stress factories.    It use to be that if you needed more of a challenge you went to private school.  Now kids are going to private schools to get away from the out of control Public Schools!     Kids take Russian Math in Summer School then expect to be taught even more advanced Math in school!   This is ridiculous!  
"I think you also have to look at who exactly is buying property in town and for what purpose.  Are those buying intending to be here for the long haul or are they here to take advantage of our educational system and leave?  If we really want the town to be age- and income- diverse, this issue has to addressed, as politically incorrect as it is to address it."
"This survey appears biased from the outset to make Lexington look better and more affordable than it is. For instance who designed the property tax question? When you include only  the option “little taxes” ranging from 1% to 25% you learn nothing.  Yes 1% to 5% that is a little tax, but 15 to 20% that is high!  The entire question is biased to make taxes look low here when in fact they are through the roof!  Are you looking to learn how to fix this broken town or to justify the damage that has been done to this once desirable community?  Fact is the town character and livability has been destroyed by contractors allowed to run unchecked and a town leadership without vision, and who ignore the voice of residents whom they are supposed to represent. "
"I am concerned with the rising property tax rates and the ability of aging residents to pay. This town is always talking about diversity, but they don’t seem to be concerned at all with socioeconomic diversity. I also think the town should help neighborhoods work with National Grid to get more natural gas lines because it is more economical, cleaner and a much more comfortable heat source than electric or oil heat. This would be a great investment for the town and the residence."
"We hope to age in place because we love living in Lexington. However, the taxes may make that prohibitive.  "
"Seriously???

This is all in tax docs.

Fix the fields
Fix the schools
Get better teachers 
Stop wasting my time."
lower taxes
"Property taxes are what will lead us to moving out of Lexington when we retire in 10 years. Since 2003 when we purchased our home our taxes have gone from $6000/year to over $14k. We’ve done no additions , only modest update of a kitchen "
Lexington is becoming too expensive for the average person. Do we really want the town to only be full of extremely wealthy and push out the rest?
"Property taxes are too high, almost had us move to another town."
"General concerns about rising taxes and large-scale projects (high school, fire station, new children's place, etc) and whether all options are being considered"
"Would have appreciated a question in the survey about the latest overrides and impact on our quality of life/taxes.  For us, it has meant $200+ less a month more expense."
"I think it would behoove you to ask why people would move from the area if they are thinking of doing so. Otherwise, you will be making assumptions that might effect your decision-making and may cause an unexpected and significant demographic shift in the town. "
Thank you for asking these questions!
Cost of home ownership  is too high in Lexington. Property tax are too high & this year won’t be able to claim on tax return (paid taxes over $10k ) 
I am also concerned about environmental and community impact of removing of wooded/green areas to make way for more homes and housing developments. 
Find better ways of reducing spending & getting better value from tax money
"Taxes are really high, housing costs are outrageous, and the elderly are being priced out of town.  It is appalling that people are buying houses here and not living in them, using them for tax shelters, or buying houses and letting people live there to attend the schools.  There isn't enough affordable housing in town, and it impacts our neighborhoods and the makeup of our town."
"What will the ultimate goal will be after having this info ? 
I wish they will be a way ...to stay in Lexington in my home forever once my kids outgrow the school system .. as an [foreign country] immigrant and US Citizen this is my home and the only one I can go back when I retire ...due to the political situation of my original country ... I wish I could financially be able to afford it but even with savings,  Lex taxes are crazy high ... "
"I appreciate that Lexington does surveys like this.  My fear is that my responses will be skewed to imply that property taxes are a huge burden to us.  We don't have a mortgage, so on paper, property taxes look like a disproportionate expense.  However, we appreciate that Lexington is a well-run town and we are happy to help fund it."
I would not characterize 1-25% of my total expenses related to property taxes as minimal.  If the town believes property taxes that are are minimal it shows they are out of touch.
"As the town keeps increasing, it makes it more transient and less long term living environment. (This problem is growing in many areas and is not good for aging in place.)"
Cut the funding for senior programs.  Increase the price of golf course 
"I'm concerned about the number of tear downs and huge houses being built on small lots in our E. Lexington neighborhood. We were barely able to afford a house here in 2005 and are barely hanging on to it. We liked the feel of this small neighborhood and are disturbed that these big houses are changing the feel. More importantly, we're losing a lot of older housing stock that was more affordable and we're turning into an expensive neighborhood that only wealthy people can afford to buy into. Not what we were looking for when we moved here. Additionally, we're losing green space (back yards) and trees as these are cut down and paved over to accommodate the large houses that extend as far as possible to the lot line and are built as tall as possible. It makes for a less appealing view and less privacy and sunlight in our house. The quality of life here is diminished as a result. "
you will probably twist this survey into spending more money and raising taxes
Thank you for investigation 
"I like to see  the property tax decrease, rather than going up every year. "
"Our income is modest. However, we do not want to respond to this question. And again, please do not make the property taxes progressive, i.e. a higher percentage for larger homes. Just stop spending beyond your means. Just like the rest of us have to do.  "
Would love a more vibrant downtown
Good idea to do this survey.  Lexington government's lack of fiscal discipline is driving property tax rates to extreme levels that will drive senior residents away and block newly established couples from living here.
"Lexington is a very good town to live in, but the housing cost is very high .. I wish this survey can generally help in finding Ways for fair housing cost in Lexington so we can Permanently live in Lexington and not to move to other town in future.
Thanks, "
"I am not sure how this will be used but I feel that there is a major negative impact on long term (seniors especially) residents. It is getting to the point where I can't afford to move and I might not be able to stay,"
"Right now I am still working full time, primarily because of concerns about being able to afford to live on my retirement income. My husband has not worked for pay since 20[xx].  If I did this survey after retirement, or if we suddenly had major expenses for our home, medical, or auto, our situation would be more difficult. We want to stay in this community, but our house would be a teardown if sold (we are one of just a handful of the original 1957 houses in our neighborhood) and then where would we live if we sold it?"
Hopefully the results of the survey and some actionable items will come out of this.
Taxes are difficult for Sr. Citizens. Only one main grocery store/have to travel to other towns for shopping.  Parking in center is difficult. Lexington has lost it town atmosphere and close community feeling.
good attempt
"We have lived in Lexington for almost 20 years. We are very discouraged by the changes in the town. Severe increase in traffic, more diverse in ways, but WAY less diverse in economic terms.  We feel we are being driven out for not being rich enough.  Also, don't like the focus of making Lexington more affordable for low income families while driving out middle income families.  Is that what Lexington will become?  Only the very rich and very poor, but nothing in the middle?  I don't like that."
Glad the town is interested in us
See answer above.
"Some towns such as Cambridge give tax breaks to owner-occupied dwellings, and others have enough tax base (commercial and industrial firms) to make the tax burden fall more lightly on homeowners. We live in a neighborhood where as homeowners of a 2 bedroom bungalow we pay considerably more taxes than the million dollar restaurant across the street. Why is that? I am a liberal Democrat, but I think the town of Lexington needs to rethink how heavily it taxes its not very wealthy homeowners. We have tried to have our tax reassessed but they threaten that a reassessment might choose to raise our taxes. It is not a good situation for older people."
"I know several Lex home owners in their 60’s who would like to down size to a smaller home in Lex.  They have found that the purchase prices of smaller homes are very high, making the move not economically sensible.     

"
"Lexington's affordability has always been an issue, and it seems to be getting harder and harder for both retirees to live here and young families to move here. The town has known about this phenomenon for years, of not decades, but the issue seems to get worse each year. Old, affordable homes get torn down and mini mansions get built. Large families move in for the school system, but their local taxes don't pay the extra cost of putting their children through the schools here. The tax burden gets placed on empty-nesters and retirees. It's a dynamic that will drive out those who cannot afford to stay here, no matter what town bells and whistles are built, like a state-of-the-art community center and theatre. It's a vicious cycle and the town leadership, regrettably, seems to be allowing it to happen. "
"I don't mind the taxes, but the teachers and students receive a LOT of time off. My daughter is in middle school and they didn't have a full week of school until the last week of September because of the Jewish holidays, etc. Why? There aren't that many Jewish people in Lexington."
I wish I had been able to attend one of the fora scheduled re ten year plan. Could not fit it in my schedule.
I think I made a mistake in reporting property tax---seems too low
Would have been helpful to be advised in advance some of the specific info I should have had available before starting the survey.
It's about time these questions were asked. Hope the survey helps
We lived in Lexington from 1996 to 2004 then returned in 2010. Also my husband grew up in Lexington and moved away when he went to college (1971). The question regarding length of time living in Lexington doesn't allow for people in our situation so you may be missing info that is important. We moved out when our youngest graduated from the high school but after 6 years decided to move back. Thanks.
"I'm encouraged to see some concern about the high cost of maintaining a private single family home in Lexington, occupied by seniors, making little demands for town services (no children in school system) and having a real estate tax burden that jeopardizes our financial ability to remain in our Lexington home."
"Please remember us. We helped build the center playground,, resurface the center track, volunteered in schools, worked as part time classroom aides with no benefits but paid union dues. How can we afford to move? How can we afford to live in fancy new apartment housing when our homes are now tear downs and worth so little? I am heartbroken, scared, still working and hope I didn’t move here in vain. I never thought as a middle class college graduate  I would be working poor."
"Within the past weeks, three neighbors have spoken to me about how much the taxes have risen and how many new houses are being built in our neighborhood  and several others in Lexington changing the landscape of the town. All three neighbors are moving out of town within the next 3 to 5 years because of it.  I will have to as well. As their neighbor I am concerned when I see any piece of property over 1/2 acre being built with condos to two, three or multiple homes. Due to the substantially increased amount of building we fear additional and substantial property tax increases. This will make it impossible for us to remain here for the long term. I understand we need new schools and police and fire stations but they are inevitably over built. Estabrook does not use it’s indoor greenhouse for example -just one small example among many others. The size of the new Hastings Elementary school while understanding we are planning for future population growth seems again excessive."
Lexington is a well run town with and we're happy to pay our share to keep it so!
"We love this town and all it has to offer, however the cost of housing makes it difficult to buy a house. "
"WE ARE VERY APPRECIATIVE OF YOUR REQUESTING OUR PARTICIPATION & WE TRUST THAT OUR TOWN of LEXINGTON WILL HELP ALL RETIRED SENIORS  WITH
A. SUBSTANTIAL ""PROPERTY TAX"" REDUCTION.  WE HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE TOWN of LEXINGTON PROPERTY & EXCISE TAX COLLECTION FOR ALMOST.         50 YEARS.  T  Y"
"Lexington is a wonderful town in which to live. It is very expensive, especially for very senior persons living on a fixed or uncertain income. I think that the town does not exert enough fiscal discipline in terms of funding various programs. For example, our school spending is among the highest in the state. In some cases, families move in for the school experience and then move out, which increases the costs for all the longer-term residents. "
"Town pool, library, conservation, thriving town center are all things that will make us want to stay in Lexington for many years."
I have been looking to move for 3 years but there is nothing that costs less unless I move 40 miles and then the gas would eat up the savings. I spend 55% of income on rent. This is a hardship. I can't save for anything including retirement. This town does not care about single people like me. I applied for subsidized housing here but have heard nothing in 4 years. Frustrating.
Please publicize your results.
Property taxes are EXTREME for fixed income folks.  The town should find other sources of income.  In our case we never had students in the Lexington schools. 
An informal survey leads me to believe that the per cent rise in property tax rates in Lexington is greater for less expensive houses.   I would like to see a comparison of the sale price of $1.5 M and greater houses and their assessed value compared to the sale price of houses less than $1M and their assessed value.
"Young families are priced out of this town - most houses below $700K end up as tear downs, and that's about the max house value a family like mine can afford (or not truly afford in our case! but at least make work somehow). We should enact a residential exemption, reduce the allowable gross square footage per lot (the current restrictions do not truly limit builders) to discourage tearing down perfectly functional ""smaller"" houses (where but Lexington is 2K sqft a small house??) so people making less than $200K per year can afford to live here."
The property tax is ridiculous comparing to other towns
"We can't afford to stay in Lexington like our parents did.  We would move to another LABB town for our medically handicapped child as the same size house in another town has taxes around 4k, not the 11k we pay now. "
"We are fortunate to have retired here in a town that offers such a wide range of services, not only for older citizens, but also for families.  Our daughter and her family live here (and are the reason we retired here).  We previously lived in several different parts of the country (South and Mid-Atlantic), and this is definitely the best place we have lived.  We do realize, however, that there are residents living here now who cannot afford to live here in retirement.  Income inequality should be a major consideration for the town in the future."
Survey is a great idea. We feel/know that anyone at our income level could no longer afford to move into Lex. We are fortunate. Thank you.
"Thanks for considering input!  Would love to see a more affordable Lexington, especially for young people / renters.  I will likely need to move in the future because I won't be able to afford living here as a graduate student, and that makes me sad, but hopefully I can come back."
We are currently receiving masshealth insurance. The plan is so bad that we have to be near death in order to get our medical needs met. I have been out of work through and on W.C. disability insurance. The insurer delays payments. Lawyers are allowing delays that adds to added stress in the household.
"the survey is fine - however, if your goal is to provide more affordable housing in town, then I suggest that you have a few rules. The town should REVISIT yearly after someone qualifies and accepts affordable housing in town, to see if they indeed the resident still qualifies. If not, there must be some repercussions. (ie - if in a condo, they need to move or start paying the full condo fees, etc.) Some people really know how to work the system and it's not serving the purpose. I would love to see people come to our town who really deserve it and would benefit from affordable housing. "
Tax burden to Lexington residents is to high. Tax dollars should be spent on the need for an new high school and cut everywhere else.
"Lexington is certainly an expensive town to live in, but one of the real issues (unrelated to my personal situation) is that there are not enough affordable houses for small families to buy, and those that exist are being torn down. Between that and the property taxes, we are limiting who can move into Lexington and minimizing diversity. "
"Add questions about shopping habits, eating and transportation means."
"It's great to provide so many services to the seniors, but there is not so much for families and teenagers. It could be nice to have affordable babysitting services, as well as house keeping services. As for the teenagers, it could be helpful to have the community center open for them on Saturday night and Sundays, in order to provide a safe and warm place where they could meet and hang out, especially during winter-time."
Nice compact survey.  Interested in seeing the analysis of the results of the survey when it is completed sent to the Lexington List
"(survey methodologist here) given the incomes in town, you should have a higher amount listed. if the median household income is ~190K, nearly half the town will cluster in the 200K category."
"Thank you for sending this. Many people in the town are upset about the rising cost of living in Lexington, particularly the rising property taxes. Most people are not aware of the 32% increase that is locked in over the next 10 years based on official Town projections, nor are they aware that this increase does not include any new taxes to fund the $300 million+ (Town estimate) replacement high school that is in early planning stages. Please publish the results of the survey - many people will be interested in the results."
I appreciate this survey being available to complete by residents and hope it can make some change.  It would be wonderful to have Lexington be more economically diverse.  I grew up here and moved back. I love this town and hope it doesn't become too difficult economically to raise my children here.
none
Thank you for doing it
I do indeed consider property taxes in Lexington to be prohibitive for seniors and retired persons.  That is the primary reason I would consider leaving.
"You should also ask regarding employment status: number working, retired, etc."
"Curious whether or not people moving in can really afford the $1 million plus (really $1.5 million plus) new home price tag, or if they are overextending themselves.
"
We are fortunate to have many excellent town services
You should ask what areas the town should focus on to reduce overhead like why do new hires always start at the top of the salary range?  To be competitive is hogwash.  People would love to have a municipal job in town just to get their foot in the door!
"To be honest, I felt a little weird being asked for salary and home value info..."
should have included question about how we feel about tax increases constantly just for the sake of new schools. and buildings in town. enough!!  
You need to do something to change the obscene housing expenses. We are moving out of Lexington to buy a house. The town where for the last 10 years I have given back to in many forms of volunteer service and it is disheartening to need to move my family to have the opportunity to buy a home and no longer rent. 
Thanks
It would be nice if we had a daycare for seniors and 55 and over living.
"I think the categorization for property tax percentage is inappropriate.  Little (1-25%) and some (26-50%) don't seem right to me--someone paying property taxes that equal 49% of their housing costs is paying quite a lot, not ""some""!  Ditto for someone paying 20-25%; that's not ""little""."
Dwelling should be reduced to no more than $400k for my property.
"We love living in Lexington and all the town services, community organization and especially the public schools. We understand that takes money and have no issue with the level of town taxes.  However, for the money we are paying, we are disappointed in what we're hearing so far of the math program at Harrington Elementary.  Our [child just started school] there and many, many parents with older kids in the same school tell us that no only is the current level of math instruction going to say that way for the rest of the year, but that it doesn't get much better by 5th grade.  Most of the parents supplement with Russian School of math.  That's expensive and we'll do it but it's painful to think we have to do that after specifically moving to Lexington for the school system and doubling our mortgage in the process.  Just to clarify: my five year old can count to a hundred and do addition and subtraction, just from having been playing a math game on my phone on her own initiative.  At the back to school night, we were told they are currently learning to count to ten, will move on to twenty by mid-year and will touch on addition by year's end.  Why does this matter to the money discussion?  Because we don't want to see taxes cut so much as to ensure that the money we already pay results in a high quality of town services."
I would most benefit from additional subsidized housing or a rent waiver until I can be moved up the list where I would pay 30% of my income and Lexington would pay the rest.  My rent is $750 so it is much more expensive for social services if I were to become homeless.
"Lame survey.  Gives you no information about what I want/like/don’t like about town.

Pool hours suck for working families.

Hate the cookie cutter housing being built - not actually affordable just makes more  money for builders.

School facilities are not good.  Teaching staff no better and perhaps worse than most other places in Mass.  kids success is entirely based on family expectation not at all on quality teaching.  We have so many crappy teachers here who instill a massive sense of boredom rather than a love of learning.  

I am so underwhelmed by lexington I don’t even have words to express it.


"
Not sure what you're trying to understand in this survey..
the income question and answer choices is ridiculous.  very unrealistic options for Lexington residents
"I think affordability is relative to when you moved here... when I bought, there were still single family homes listed for under 500K. Now, you can’t find a house for less than 750K, which is out of most people’s range. "
Hope it leads to lower property taxes and more services for the senior citizens.
Taxes. Too high. 
we do enjoy the safety of the town even when it's dark out to see a movie solo. the roads are great and always plowed. we have a very responsive town. i feel my tax dollars are well spent.
I appreciate the opportunity to give comments because of my concern with all of Lexington tax overrides!
It is getting way too expensive to live here. And small starter family homes are not being built affordable here
"Kids have been out of school for 10 years, but taxes will drive us away.  We wanted to stay."
Thank you for your efforts to gather this information
Lexington has an overly priced housing
"Improve the cell phone reception, build local cell towers"
Our senior citizens and young families need affordable housing.  Our seniors do not need expensive elder care/senior facilities-- they need small single story rental options that are TRULY affordable so they can age in the town they love. 
"You get what you pay for and people who are struggling to remain in Lexington need to take full advantage of assistance the town offers.  It's not fair to say that I won't take advantage of assistance, because I don't want a real estate tax lien on my house, as it would reduce the inheritance I leave to my children.  Also the town offers discounted taxi service, meals on wheels, home visits from volunteers, etc.  If a struggling resident does not reach out to the town staff for help, they either don't know that help is available or they are help resistant complainers!"
"Housing and contract development is out of control.  It has changed the entire fabric of the community since we moved here.  We need a better town center, less banks and realtors."
Lexington is a wonderful town. Thank you!
I love the services Lexington provides. We use them ALL the time.
"Very good survey! (Renting now. Just bought a house in town, will move in very soon)"
"Lexington Town Taxes are prohibitively high! As we age, it is not economically viable for us to stay in Lexington, a town in which we have rented, and then owned a Town House and now a Single Family home! Town finances need to be managed better before passing the burden to the Town residents."
I'm amazed that you are asking for income levels and such. How do I know that this survey is anonymous?
"Town wide compost service pls. For this survey, some things were “not yet” (eg Lexpress not now but will value when kids are old enough)"
A big noticeable cost is water/sewer. It is comparable to my gas and electric bills. How come this was left off?
I wish there were some affordable housing options for home ownership. The only reason I am able to reside here is because of the Avalon affordability program
Town should provide more free programs for seniors.
I think Lexington is a great town but taxes are so high I’m afraid I will have to move!  (My rent pays the taxes)
We are in Lexington because of its strong commitment to taking care of its residents. Our son and my brother in law are disabled and love with us
I don't know if my responses help or not but basically we use some of the services Lexington offers (mostly community center and bike path) 
I hope that it helps to allow taxes to be lowered so I can stay in Lexington
"Besides the school system, we don’t see strong value for our taxes reflected in other town services. It is motivating us to move when our kids complete school in this area. "
I would like to see property costs cover improved plowing so kids can go to school in the winter and not have snow days 
"Youngest kids have graduated LHS, so while it's a lovely town, will probably move back into an urban environment."
"I do hope the survey will be used to find ways to stop increasing town taxes.  People move out of Lexington because of the taxes, there must be a way to decrease the spending so we don' t have to increase taxes. "
Please lower real estate taxes.
"would be nice to have a little more context than ""will be shared with policy makers"""
